hi everybody uh I am Jason lemkin I am
the founder of saster which is the
world's largest community for B2B
Founders I've also invested 100 and
something million of my own in
venture-backed startups and today we
have literally
um one of the most epic panels to
discuss just what's happening
not only in Venture Capital today but at
the intersection of venture capital and
Venture buying
um I'm here at re invent in in Vegas
where Goddard just was and it's off the
charts the Crowds Are Crazy VCS are
having cocktail parties left and right
um yet it's Doom and Gloom on Twitter
it's Doom and Gloom from the venture
capitalist on Twitter so we're gonna
find out what this epic panel
um we've got Alex Kyle from Salesforce
Ventures Alex has been
uh Salesforce must have the biggest
portfolio of cloud Investments on the
planet so if anyone's got the pulse of
really what's happening I think it's
Alex would that be fair to say how many
how many Venture Investments and
Salesforce Ventures done overall yeah
yeah we've been actually investing since
2009 and we've got about 350 companies
now so pretty large scale
okay that's pretty good
um we've got Arun Matthew from Excel and
IT not only is Excel one of the all-time
great Venture Capital firms but very
early on SAS right doing really iconic
investments in atlassian and qualtrics
as the first big investor writing big
checks and so many winners
um and so we're gonna hear about
swinging from the fences at all stages
what's really going on here right
um everyone how many how many Cloud
Investments has Excel done over the last
two years or so on a ball Market
you know including seed Investments
probably 75 yeah give yourself the most
generous statistic
probably 75 to 80 over the last couple
years 75 to 80. okay good
um and then we've got Doug pepper who uh
is one of the OG SAS investors now at
iconic growth so doing late stage and
calendly and Brays and all these great
names but he's also done a b c d e f g c
he was the very first investor in
Marketo back in the day when we were
figuring out the next generation of SAS
companies so I love talking with Doug
because I always get the straight scoop
um from someone that's done all stacks
of everything
um and the school of good knocks and
Hard Knocks so Doug thanks for joining
us
it's great to be here thanks Jason
yeah and just to give folks a sense of
of iconic roughly like how many I mean
there's so many great names in the
iconic portfolio how many how many
staffs in class Cloud Investments has
the has the fur made yeah we we have
about 115 public and private SAS
portfolio companies right now
it's pretty good pretty good okay so I
wanted to I don't usually do this but I
wanna I want from each of you and then
we'll dig in I want to do a one to ten
and the reason I want to do one day is I
think the world is weird today and I
want to hear from each of you starting
with a room one to ten just how is sat
how how is SAS doing look at public
companies look at the earnings for OCTA
and Salesforce and zoom in your own
portfolio how's SAS doing one to ten and
then how is SAS investing one to ten
like where are you on the one to tens
I think uh if you look at some of the
and we might have some debate about this
but if you look at some of the recent
company earnings and just looking at our
portfolio I'd say
SAS companies are doing probably about a
five to six but the trend line
especially over the last quarter or two
and what we can see over the next
quarter or two is mixed to down
uh we have been super conservative on
investing and so we've made one growth
investment this year and so one this
year wow one this year and that's down
from about 20 from last year and so uh
our investing Pace has slowed
significantly from the start of the year
and so I think our investing probably
preceded some of the results that are
coming out and so you know from uh
investing perspective I'd probably put
it at a two to three right now
I want to come back to that but uh Alex
what are you seeing I know you know
you're at a public company so you may
have to put put some quotes around it
but were you on these two one to tens
you know it's interesting I actually
have a more positive outlook than a rune
um you know maybe because they're just
like the long-terms review I mean I
guess I'd say on the on the on the
overall industry you know I'd probably
give it a seven or an eight uh in the
sense that you know I think what we've
seen is
you know I think the big question right
now is can these companies all continue
to be Mission critical as they have in
the last five to ten years you know I
think if you look at how many SAS
companies exist today versus 15 years
ago we just have a huge much larger data
set of companies that have gone public
and certainly in the pandemic what we
saw is all these companies were sort of
keeping the lights on for Industries and
you know companies of all shapes and
sizes uh and so what you're seeing now I
think is there's been a real refocusing
of hey what are the most Mission
critical companies that we need to
support in terms of budget and uh you
know that's I think the the defining
factor that we're going to see the next
three or four quarters is we'll get a
real sense of what's Mission critical
versus not our view is that obviously
um you know a lot of what we've seen in
SAS is with the beauty of the model and
customer success for what the Forefront
is if you're delivering value to
customers we really think you'll still
see continued growth you know I was I
was just looking ahead of this
conversation at salesforce's growth in
2009 uh you know in what was the Doom
and Gloom era as we can all remember
number of you know the world felt you
know sort of financial markets were
about to collapse uh and Salesforce
still grew north of 20 in that period
um you know from uh sort of a lot of
um caution and concern so I'm more
optimistic I think a lot of these
companies have really healthy balance
sheets huge Tams
um in many ways I think cloud is still
just getting started and I think more
than anything it's a valuation reset as
opposed to fundamental companies
got it so seven to eight I think you
said for the business side what about
for Venture side
so
yeah you know we we've continued our
Pace I mean I think there are runes
point the growth Market has really
slowed down
um you know in large part I think is the
best SAS companies over the last couple
years have probably raised one extra
round that they needed uh and so in our
in our portfolio the best companies just
aren't really in the market uh and a lot
of companies got funded in the last 12
18 months and so I think there are fewer
growth deals to be had but we're seeing
a lot of excitement uh for stuff on the
ground floor you know I think the types
of entrepreneurs that are going to Good
Start companies today uh they're they're
a great kind of crazy you know because
you really you know in this environment
to go start a company
um you sort of have to sort of really be
Mission driven and so we invest across
the stages so I'd probably give it a
blended score that's higher on the early
stage side right now just given uh all
the momentum we're still seeing and sort
of seed in series a uh but I certainly
think the growth Market has slowed down
a lot
got it and Doug what do you what are you
seeing from the iconic perspective how
are you guys thinking we Doug and I
talked right when things went we're
starting to get tight we did it we did
one of the first interviews that things
were somewhat bullish right I think you
were anything sub 500 was still a good
valuation X months ago is that where
we're at today where where are we on
both one to tens yeah I think it's tough
um I agree with Alex long long term uh
I'm still very bullish but I think
you're asking about today and I think
it's I think it's really tough I mean
it's hard to be bullish when the very
best companies the very best in the
public markets are down 60 to 80 percent
um yeah that's painful but I think
you're asking more about how are the
companies actually doing
and in that respect I'd still go closer
to a rune with a five uh or a six
because of how it's deteriorating we
look at all the data and we have data on
lots of companies 2021 was like the best
year ever in my career almost every
company hit 100 of their plan for net
new ARR those numbers are deteriorating
fast q1 the medium was 99 hit their plan
87 Q3 median 69 percent
and so companies are starting to really
miss their plans both public and private
you're seeing much fewer public
companies
raise their guidance now dramatically
down q1 Q2 we don't know all of the q3s
but there's very few raises in the
public market for full year guidance now
which is a huge change from before and
those companies as you know have
significant buffer built and so we are
seeing in the private and public a
significant deterioration in their
attainment versus plan you want to talk
about growth rates the median growth
rate was about 83 percent last year
across a very wide range of companies
that we track this year that's degrading
all the way to 48 percent
um so growth rates are that's that's
that that is more than I would have
expected given that the quality of the
names
these are very high quality companies
and so what is happening is real out
there now those are all growth rates
versus very aggressive plans and so what
happened was everybody drew a straight
line from the growth rates of 20 and
2021 right thought that was going to
continue the reality is these companies
are actually still growing really well
they're just not doubling at scale
they're just not tripling the way we
thought and that's okay except for they
built their expense plans to that higher
growth and that's why you're seeing a
lot of layoffs right now and as an
investor I'd say the environment is a
two because we're still in that messy
middle of readjusting to those new
slower growth rates we don't know how
fast companies are really growing
because they're changing those numbers
every quarter right now
and at the same time as Alex said
companies have insane balance sheets
which is great by the way uh and still
pretty high expectations in terms of
valuations so when you put that all
together as a B plus investor you know
series B and Beyond uh it's a very tough
time to invest right now
are you guys just following those those
metrics are so interesting um they're
all versus plan right is what we're
seeing right so the growth rates are
just raw growth rates
are reiterate that one just really quick
it was 87.40 something last year was 80s
this year 40 you know 50. okay just a
question to everybody there um just to
add on to that for
um
the percentage of companies that the the
figures that Doug mentioned we're seeing
even worse results across our portfolio
so I would say less than half of our
companies are hitting original 2020 22
plans and I think by the end of the year
you know it'll probably be closer to 25
to 30 percent that we're seeing across a
very large sample size and these are
you know in many cases these are out of
companies control you know it it is it
is a spike in attrition it is a spike it
is a decrease in net expansion it is it
are you know it's fundamental things
that are related to the market that
we're seeing across a broad
cross-section that leads me to believe
it's about the environment and Market
also company execution as well mixed in
but this Market I think is a really
challenging time in general
for a lot of our SAS companies
are you seeing are you and this with the
data zone are you seeing investing is a
business of outliers right and maybe in
a business of outliers of outliers are
your top decile investments in
deceleration like this
um how does the how's the distribution
like is it are the very best ones still
hitting their plans or exceeding their
plans and if so is it okay right
shouldn't there be some winnowing in a
sense
uh yeah I mean I
if we look at the data I would say it's
not decile it's probably the top five
percent
are still oh that's tight out of a
portfolio of 100 I'm making up numbers
but roughly my guess is less than 10
maybe five have raised their plan for
this year and are beating that race
again it's a very small number and but
there are some to your point there still
are outliers that are doing tremendously
well
there are also companies that were
outliers last year that were doing
tremendously well that it felt like they
were going to be super resilient and
even those are having challenges
yeah I think that ratio is about right
I'd say two things one the forecast of
these companies if you look ahead over
the next two four six quarters say
crowdstrike as an example maybe one of
the best SAS companies out there the
best cyber company out there uh big
investors in them Believers in what
they're doing I mean they're forecast
for the next year is south of what
anyone expected and I think it's just
the storm clouds that are Brewing on the
horizon I think are pretty consistent
across even the top decile of companies
I will say the best companies are
probably close to or hitting plan but I
think the majority of those are are
spiking in terms of uh free cash flow or
margin and so you know the better
companies that we are seeing are able to
drive leverage in their business model
and so they're maybe not seeing the Top
Line growth rate that they expected but
they're making up for it in the bottom
line and I think that's a really healthy
balance you know Alex mentioned
Salesforce uh you know in 2009 I think
that's a really great example because
they drop from I don't know exact
numbers but 45 to 20 or so but they
drove margin and I do think the best
companies in this environment are going
to make a trade for growth rate for
margin as growth and profitability come
into Focus together versus just an
emphasis on growth which is what we've
had basically for the last two or three
years yeah roon I completely agree with
that and actually I'm really excited to
see how proactive I think a lot of our
CEOs have been you know I think SAS even
though it's relatively new I think we
have enough data now in the last 10
years where a lot of CEOs are sort of
being very proactive and I think um you
know of course it's disappointing when
companies are missing plan but
um you know we're we're sort of a result
of uh what what happens in public
markets I think private Market investors
really look at what's happening in
public you know in the public markets to
sort of assess how we you know price
deals and give advice to a lot of our
companies and obviously there's been a
huge shift to Root's Point
um we are still encouraging our
companies to grow I think growth is
still a fundamental driver value
creation long term and one of the
benefits of being private is you don't
have the sort of same scorecard you know
every single quarter of being a public
company and you're able to make some of
those longer-term Investments and so the
advice that we're giving a lot of our
portfolio companies is of course focus
on efficiency
um you know that should always be there
you know that's one of the beauties of
SAS is just how you can recruit your
sales marketing so well if you have a
good engine humming and growth can sort
of sometimes hide a lot of those
inefficiencies and so now is the time to
sort of get back to the core focus on
those fundamentals but don't ignore
growth you know I was talking to one of
our portfolio companies they went from
two to five of ARR the plan was two to
ten uh yeah and we could argue whether
two to ten was sort of too ambitious or
just ambitious enough uh but I said you
know look you went from two to five that
is a great day uh for the company you
know and in this environment uh that is
no bad thing and so of course like we we
should compare it also against what
these were planning at the beginning of
the year but I also think a lot of these
markets are still there and we're still
you know budgets I think are under
they're scrutinized right now but in our
experience they have definitely not
disappeared uh and I think that's what
entrepreneurs need to hang their hat on
that if they can build a really
important product solve a really big
problem you know it will take longer no
doubt all these Cycles are elongating
you know reps are taking longer to ramp
up
um decisions take longer in this
environment but I don't think it goes
away
that's what I'm struggling with I think
it's such is like did we just get drunk
a lot in 2021 because we're not let's
take crowdstrike going to runes point
right yes growth is not what we what
what maybe everyone had hoped but these
are crazy growth rates what's
crowdstrike at two billion 3 billion ARR
Salesforce is at 30 billion I mean you
know Henry Scheck was just on from Zoom
info one of my favorite CEOs yeah their
growth's a little bit lower at 1.2
billion error but it's still like 48 I
mean how bad can things be when all the
leaders are still growing at rates that
honestly when uh when I met Alex or Doug
we I didn't even think these growth
rates were possible or as a satisfied I
didn't think we can grow at these rates
north of a billion right and so I I
wonder if it's so bad or our
expectations and our Our World Views got
warped for for two years right did this
go on for too long the good times yeah
I do think we were drunk last year
um and I think that the The Hangover is
is going to be real but but you're right
there are those incredible public
billion dollar Revenue companies that
are growing well you know they've proven
that they are standards they are
platforms uh yeah kind of like IBM was
back in the 80s you don't get fired for
buying IBM
um and and clearly they've proven they
have insane product Market fit and Roi
so it stands to reason that they might
be the ones that continue growing the
fastest what I think all of us on this
call are worried about are the thousands
of companies that were funded in the
last three to five years uh that aren't
those companies and and I think that
group
is the one where there's going to be
real differentiation like Alex said
between the must-have the nice to have
the core products that deliver real Roi
and that's where the rubber meets the
road and not everybody's going to win I
think the drunkenness last year was We
we made two fundamental errors I think
one we thought everything would work
every every company looked like it was
going to work and by the way for a while
in a free money economy with no no focus
on budgets almost anything could sell
and I think those days are over the
must-have nice to have line is very
bright now and it's probably moved up
I think the other thing that we learned
is that it's really hard to be a Deca
corn uh I think certainly in the growth
in the growth area of venture we started
to make assumptions uh in order to drive
just a basic Venture return that a
company needed to be worth 10 billion
turns out that's really hard and there
aren't that many of those left
um and and I think it's going to
fundamentally change how people think
about entry points because no longer can
you assume you know 10 billion to to
generate a venture return in most cases
I what is the number what is the number
oh I mean I think it's hard to drive
around I want to hear a point but what
what is it a deck of corn of 2021 is
that a two billion dollar outcome today
how do you guys think about it
everything's down 60 to 80 so yeah you
know you do the math Maybe
I think the big I I totally agree with
that for me like going back to
crowdstrike and not to harp on it you
know it's a two billion dollar error
company growing 56 year versus
National margins so it's a Rule of 85
company at that scale which is unheard
of so there's no dispute there are a set
of companies that are just incredible
companies out there but you look at what
crowdstrike is valued at it's valued on
current ARR at 12 times and you look at
a forward number that's nine and a half
times so I think the challenge and the
takeaway is if you see a smaller company
that's in maybe a less important Market
as endpoint security what is that worth
and I think there's just a Delta between
what those companies were valued over
the last two or three years versus what
that company is worth today and that's
not to mention what the future prospects
look like in a harder macro economic
environment where it is tougher to grow
and so I think that that valuation on
one hand we're talking about company
performance and to some degree some of
that is coming down but I think that's a
really healthy thing we're going to see
the best company separated out from the
need to have versus the nice to have the
wheat from the child I think that's
healthy and you can build you can get
real signal and down Market about
whether your product is a need to have
and so I'm encouraging all of our
companies to focus on that the ground
truth of what your customers are telling
you and that will ultimately lead to
building a more durable business so
that's one I'm not worried about that I
think the shift that we have to and why
this environment is so difficult from an
investing standpoint is the best
companies are trading at a certain value
and a lot of other companies and
Founders and CEOs have expectations
about value for their businesses that
are totally out of whack and we are
going through that messy middle of
realigning expectations and my
expectation is that's going to come to
bear over the next year or two as many
of these companies go back out to Market
there's been a ton of money that's gone
into the ecosystem many companies
haven't had to raise that's great don't
raise if you don't have to but I think
that's going to change over the next
year or two and I think it's just going
to be a very Stark reality for a lot of
companies about what your company is
actually worth if the best companies are
trading at the current levels today
what percent if you had to spitball of
folks that raised at a healthy
evaluation in 2021 are almost
structurally unfundable today because of
what they're sitting down what's your
guess
um it depends when you're talking about
today they're not available
that's the truth isn't it there are no
down rounds
yeah I think that's right I mean I think
if you're if you're saying at the same
price as that 2021 valuation I think
it's close to 100 uh 100 years
right that's a lot that evaluation I
think most of them are very very
fundable if if there was a you know an
accurate price and then I think over
time given their large balance sheets
most of those companies should be able
to grow into their evaluation over time
um yeah and so I think over time
actually they should be okay it's going
to be close I think it ruins right over
the next year or two those huge balance
sheets will go down to the point where
they need to test the markets and
depending on their growth rate and their
ability to extend that Runway it'll be
very close to see whether they can raise
up rounds versus flat rounds by the way
I've counseled companies to not be easy
for me to say but even our own companies
to not be so scared of a Down Round uh
down round isn't the end of the world
look at our public companies they're all
down and they're surviving and it's not
ideal but you can celebrate having
raised a prior around at a really low
cost to Capital and and if you have to
do a Down Round to move forward it's
okay we saw that a lot in the early
2000s and some great companies got
through it
yeah I think to Doug's point you know
one of the most important things right
now I think profounder is is the mindset
they're in of hey like does that number
you know do we anchor that or not and is
that the most important thing and I
think you know we certainly had
um some situations in the last few years
where the only thing that mattered
um you know in the fundraise was the
sort of headline valuation and that
became you know sort of the kpi
especially with you know what was sort
of quoted in the Press
um in the ability to hire talent and so
there was this rush to sort of raise the
valuation but I think some Founders sort
of didn't want to raise it on real
estate expectations you know they sort
of knew what they were getting
theirselves into and one of the things
that happens of course is the higher
price you raise also in terms of like
liquidity and an exit you also keep
raising the bar for what's expected in
terms of the investors and what's
expected as a company uh for you to
achieve and so I think there is a
balancer for Founders to strike where
ultimately you want a fair evaluation
for your business uh but you also want
to be in it long term and I think you
know in many ways like it goes back a
little bit to sort of the practice point
you know it's no founder wants to lay
off any of their team members in the
last you know 12 months but the ones
that have done it are sort of taking the
you know realizing that to be a healthy
company and to sustain the environment
we have to do the tough decision and
sometimes that involves
um you know sort of taking you know
understanding the current market reality
and making those hard adjustments
Aaron going to the one growth investment
what was it one versus 35 did I get that
a little bit wrong I wasn't I wasn't
told one versus 20.
20. so I get that there's a lot of folks
that raised at unicorn valuations last
year that are tough to tough to write up
at the growth fund right but aren't if
but aren't there a couple more
atlassians out there that have raised
nothing aren't there a few gems that
that bootstrap for 15 years and got big
that that aren't asking for 50x airr
um aren't there what happened to those
gems are they still there
I mean we love those companies uh you
know of course you know iconic and Excel
invested in one password which had been
bootstrapped for 15 years before they
ended that's one right there right
before they ended up raising capital
you know they raised a 600 million round
over the last couple years so I think
the reality is whether you're
bootstrapped or not bootstrapped there's
there was just such a flood of capital
over the last two or three years that
even the most Capital efficient
businesses ended up taking some Capital
if you if it was a good advice they're
gone
I think there are some of those that are
out there but they're really hard to
find and I think by and large our
companies are sitting on record balance
sheets and most companies whether you're
bootstrapped or not whether you're
Capital efficient or not you've sort of
filled up the gas tank over the last
couple years so I think that that is
hard but I think I I you know I think
for all those companies the the reason
why this is a little bit of a tangent
but the reason why we like those
companies is their DNA is to be Capital
efficient and so it's really easy for
those companies in this environment to
switch back to a little bit of a
bootstrapish mentality of hey every
dollar that I'm spending I gotta see
real Roi for it and I go back to you
know for me it is less about the Down
Round it actually is very refreshing if
I get a candid honest take from one of
my portfolio company CEOs that says look
this is the reality of the market we
need to do this to sort of execute on
our plans we're going to do a fair
evaluation and it's probably going to be
below the last round I think that's
realistic and I think it's refreshing
and I think Founders is as soon as they
get to that conclusion the better I do
think the thing that precedes that is
have you taken the tough decisions to
lay off people kill initiatives that
aren't showing positive Roi like really
get your cost structure in line so that
your your your you're a disciplined
well-functioning organization ahead of
that and then you can assess how much
money you need for the next three to
four years and then you can back into
what that amount is and what the proper
amount of dilution for that is so um
one of the benefits of the environment
we're in is all of a sudden CEOs are
asking like hey what's the sort of
number one Roi investment or project I
need to undertake you know whereas
before a year ago maybe the top 10 were
getting funded in a company now it's
okay give me the one or two highest
value things we can go to be doing and
the sort of the constraint on cost the
constraint on Capital it drives that
focus in a way where I think it really
will you know it will separate the
strong
um you know by the ability to sort of
pick and choose what are the things that
we do want to invest in because the
reality is it's hard for everyone it's
not like certain companies
um don't have this sort of reality that
they're facing you know this everything
we just talked about regardless of
geography stage you know these are
realities that are affecting all SAS
companies in the market today and so I
think there is a real opportunity for
Founders to figure out okay well how are
we going to sort of survive and thrive
in this environment what are the sort of
one or two things that we need to do as
a business to really get out of this and
get stronger a huge Focus for us has
been on culture and value things you
know in these times when things are when
things are going well it's sort of easy
to celebrate culture but I think it's
when you know you and your moment are
more difficult crisis that's where
culture and value is really rise to the
top and we've seen a lot of Founders
whether it's how they sort of have to do
these difficult decisions how they
communicate with their employees or
shareholders us as a board
um this stuff really matters so it's
it's a really testing time but I'm
really optimistic that you know taking a
step back again I I I I I love this that
you all maybe have seen this when
Salesforce went public in our S1 our Tam
listed with 6 billion in 2004 that was
what we said the Tam was for Salesforce
you know Jason called it out it's now a
30 billion Revenue company you look at
the Tam you know over 300 billion so of
course right now is a challenging time
and it's a very uncertain environment
but I think the best Founders have this
ability to sort of really manage this
uncertainty in this kind of Crisis
environment that we might be in but in
in parallel think about long-term and
how we're going to drive a really Legacy
sort of sustaining business here
we've got a couple questions about what
areas are still hot or of high interest
but maybe if you guys have an example is
there someone in your portfolio in the
last 60 days that's raised a big round
50 million or more and what what why
were they able to do it today yeah is
there anything for us from a race and
round yeah we have a couple uh and it
and it um I think really relates to
something Alex said which is despite the
need and the requirement for increased
efficiency and increasing Runway you
know For Better or Worse we're investing
in startups that are often trying to
attack uh big markets and therefore
growth rates are are number one they're
Paramount still
um and so you know we've just had a
company that's that's Inked around uh
that is a very significant round at a
high valuation
uh but a company that this year is able
to raise their plan and then beat that
plan and grow roughly 10 to 30 in this
environment and a company that's able to
grow 10 to 30 in this environment
environment be the clear leader in their
category in one of those core categories
around data infrastructure
there's a lot of a lot of interest in
those companies still and so it's it's
rare to still have that growth rate but
when you do this year and you're
relatively efficient are showing the
signs of being efficient uh you can
raise an attractive round we have
another one that's smaller that's kind
of two to ten this year again one of the
very few that has beat and raised their
plan uh those companies are still pretty
darn interesting to investors but given
what we talked about about the kind of
attainment challenges relative to plan
uh they're pretty rare this year
yeah and then another slice of that that
I would add is I think it's companies
that can really clear clearly articulate
to to buyer an economic buyer what's the
ROI I think they're sort of you know
Doug's point of like growth continues to
matter but there's also you sort of see
it with some companies where the the go
to market engine is still relatively
nascent they're really trying to figure
out who they sell to and sort of what
problem they're solving and you you sort
of boil down the ROI question and it's
still a little unclear we have other
companies that you know portfolio where
that is just screams you know sort of
five six x Roi on the spend and I think
those are the ones right now that are
getting the most interest because you
know budgets haven't disappeared if you
take a step back we're probably anywhere
from 15 to 20 percent of I.T spend is in
the cloud
um that's that's got to go up right
every every CIO we survey and we talk to
are saying hey our investments in the
cloud are going up uh still going up you
know it's still going still going up
yeah exactly and so I think it's it's
more about can you prove the ROI and can
you drive that customer success another
huge focus by the way right now is
selling to your existing customers I
think it's a lot easier for for full
companies to actually drive upsell when
they have an existing relationship uh
with a business as opposed to sort of
land in that new account um out of the
gate and so that's that's another area
we've seen our portfolio double down on
is hey are there additional parts of the
business in uh let's say we're selling
to a large Enterprise in North America
can we transfer the European office can
we go to aipac where else can we sort of
grow given these are really Global
opportunities for a lot of these
companies
I just want to build on that last point
because I think you know if there's one
takeaway or a couple takeaways for me
from this environment I just think
retention In This Moment matters so much
gross retention net retention and it
tells you so much about your business
the ability to upsell to existing
customers I totally agree with Alex I
think that is a huge opportunity and
it's way more efficient and leverageable
and leads to a better long-term business
in terms of gross retention we're seeing
varying degrees of success of gross
retention across different customer
segments meaning SMB in this environment
is more challenged than Enterprise and
our companies that are exposed to SMB in
particular are having a harder time both
in Gross retention and retention and so
the companies that we have seen in our
portfolio that have gotten funded don't
really have as big of a retention issue
and are seeing uplift in certain
segments and I would tie the growth rate
to that specifically as well as a good
Mark getting good execution but really
around retention and for the ones that
are struggling I just think this moment
is really important to take a hard look
at your business over the next 12 to 18
months how can you improve the gross
retention and net retention because I
think raising a successful round is
going to be very dependent on you
identifying isolating and improving
those two things gross retention net
retention
do you think just out of you know when I
I I reposted some old data from 0809
when I was running Adobe sign Echo sign
and when you have two-year deals in the
Enterprise You're Gonna Come you're kind
of come out the other side of any
downtown downturn but with the smbs you
can turn in a week right are those is
that are those grrs real right in a
sense are they real or maybe they are
real because no upturns always last
longer than downturns right we do know
that and the downturns Never last longer
than upturns right right I mean there
there are there are structural and
tactical things that you can do to
improve retention I mean changing your
customer contracts we know smbs we know
companies that are exposed to the SMB
segment that have wildly different
quotes retention rates based on tactical
things so one simple thing is you know
SMB customers that are on week to week
or month-to-month basis if you cancel
you immediately get a you know you can
immediately cancel versus ones that have
a little bit of friction in the process
to try and understand why customers are
are canceling signing up for a year
contract versus month to month makes a
huge difference in terms of retention so
I I do think these retention rates are
real even if they're just tactical
things built into the contracts to
prevent as much churn I guess
now you have to balance customer value
and making sure you're not signing
customers up to really long-term like
contracts that are you know infeasible
but um I do think it's important
we there's a couple questions in the Q a
that tie to a question I hear a lot and
Doug you kind of hit it with this last
deal you did which is in so-called
tougher times I'm still not convinced
we're in tougher times I just think that
they're less great than they were last
year but in these days is it okay to
grow more slowly hey I'm more Capital
efficient right I've cut my burn but is
is it really okay or do I at least get a
pass for a year is it because you talked
about 30 10 to 30 growth in the top
category is good enough today so do I
get a pass is it okay if my if my growth
is not what what it could be if my burn
rate is very low is that good enough in
venture today yeah yeah by the way I
want to be clear I agree with you I
don't think the sky is falling in SAS I
think I mean we're all doing this
because we believe in the long-term
prospects uh budgets are still there and
companies are still going to grow
through this it's it's a phenomenal
place to be both as an investor as an
operator I think the issue right now is
just the Here and Now of matching those
growth rates with the significant change
in valuation that's happened in the
public markets and this we're just going
through a bit of a reset and I think
it's fine to your question uh very
similarly yes I think it's completely
fine for growth rates to decelerate uh
during this time uh to get your business
in order as Arun mentioned I think this
is just a great time for Founders and
operators to get a better handle on
their business to build better
businesses by making them more efficient
and that's what the public markets are
going to want anyway when they get
public so it's great for them to start
doing that now and the trick will be if
you're if you decelerate can you have a
p l that looks attractive and if you
actually need to fundraise during that
time are you going to be realistic about
what that growth rate entails in terms
of your evaluation
um and I think all of those things are
going to happen really next year maybe
not in the first half but over the
course of next year I think some of that
reality will be there but but no I don't
think that that SAS is going away or
that this is some inner this is not
crypto which is going through an
internet like bubble for 99 and 2000
because it's not real these businesses
are all absolutely fundamentally real
and needed uh there's just a bit of a
reset happening and I think it's
completely fine and most of the
companies will get through it
go ahead we got minutes go ahead Alex
sorry
uh I'm just going to say I think there
is like um you know for Founders who are
trying to the million dollar question
it's such an important one like how fast
should I grow in this environment that's
what they're asking you know how does
that change how fast do I need to grow
today
I think it does depend a little bit on
the scale of the business obviously you
know clearly grow growth decelerates
over time I do think though as Venture
investors you know when you sort of see
growth rates that are sort of sub 50 in
the early days uh it does make it harder
to sort of like
um you know really sort of a lot uh
there's plenty of ways to build a great
business and Jason you know there's
better than anyone else like do you even
we need to raise Venture Capital uh and
sort of you know to build a really huge
successful business
um but I think if you're raising Venture
funding you sort of still want to see a
path to sort of 50 60 plus percent
growth you know I think uh if a company
had uh you know a bit of a sort of was
loss making but was able to drive 70 80
growth and we could see a path to
profitability we would get more excited
about that than a company that was
growing kind of 20 or 30 percent
um you know let's say it's sub 10
million of AR and both of those are
great businesses they're just very
different investor sets I think for who
get you know how to sort of align
long-term with the founder so I still
think in this environment if you're if
you're sort of sub 10 ARR like a lot of
entrepreneurs are you still want to sort
of try to figure out is there a way to
grow at least 50 plus percent
below 10 we're still looking for
companies that are they're maybe not
tripling but close
um and and the old saying is the reason
that neerich came up with triple triple
double double is if you're not tripling
at single digits it's awfully hard to
believe that you're going to be growing
fast when you get to scale and I think
that's still true in these Giant Markets
yeah to be honest I'm kind of mean to
companies under 10 million to Alex's
point because you have such a small
market share
right and it's so hard to break into any
Market we are all the vendors we have
are already great Salesforce is great
crowdstrike is great calendly we don't
need any new software right so if you
somehow have created something magical
that solves a niche you need this is
this is startups you need a certain
amount of mad Market pull good times are
bad or you'll never reach escape
velocity right so I don't give any
startups less than 10 million I know
it's me I don't give them any slack I
don't give them any Kudos I don't give
it's the job
right it at scale it's a different thing
but it's the job right and uh I mean
you're growing slowly at that rate at
that you'll never get there right adding
net new error every month that you're
adding in a year you'll never catch them
or the math gets even worse right I mean
if crowd strikes 20 million growing 50
they're adding a billion even if it's
down they're adding a billion of new
bookings you can add 10 or five I mean I
know it's mean but crowdstrike won't
even know you exist if you had 10
million of bookings well they won't even
know you won't even be on their the 100
vendors on their competitive map yeah
everyone like and by the way I think
Everyone likes to talk about the rules
the rule of 40 is a measurement for
public company scale businesses yeah and
if you're at orders of magnitude below
that at 10 to 15 in ARR it's a different
rule you know you'll never get to scale
and have that sort of profitability
margin at scale unless you're growing
fast and for me that's just a question
of if you're not growing that fast then
maybe the market is not that interesting
I think there's some entrepreneurs that
can build great sort of 50 100 million
dollar companies that just don't require
Venture dollars
your grandkids will have to get you to
100 right that's the thing right
all right last question because we're
almost out just to wrap up from the
first one
q423 right whatever December 1st 2023
that's 12 months from now isn't it
December 1st 2023.
um better or worse than we are today
Venture let's call it just Venture but
you can answer any metric you want but
Venture Venture yeah better uh I can
take the first step yeah look I I think
we'll be in a situation where inflation
rates are more known in terms of what
they ought to be and I think right now
what's driving a lot of the volatility
in public markets is no one really knows
to what extent and you know what the
final inflation number has to be before
interest rates keep going up and I think
as soon as we sort of you know Public
Market investors can wrap their hands
around that all of a sudden you'll see
that in terms of stability and so I
would say better because of that
yeah I agree I think I think the public
market I think it's a great time to buy
a lot of these names in the public
markets that's not investment advice but
given that I think we're going to be in
a much better place next year and then
in terms of our activity levels I think
dramatically higher Venture investing
activities by that time next year
I I would say better as well although I
would caution us all that you know a big
outlier this year and a driver of a lot
of volatility uncertainty was what
happened geopolitically with Ukraine and
we didn't see that a full year ago and
so there's always the risk of a Black
Swan event over the next year but
current course in speed I agree it
should we should be in a better place
just because we have a little bit more
clarity and predictability about the
macro environment and um inflation slash
interest rates
all right well this was great Arun Doug
Alex thank you this was I think this was
a plus thanks for everyone for tuning in
we made 44 and a half minutes perfect
gentlemen and uh thanks to G2 for having
us
um and uh talk to everybody soon
Take Care thank you